Point cloud registration (point cloud matching) is a process of computing such a transformation matrix T that allows to align a source point cloud with a target point cloud in optimal way. By optimal here I mean the alignment that maximizes the number of corresponding pairs of points (correspondences) in the source and target clouds. Two points Ps and Pt are called corresponding if they are mutually closest to each other (reciprocal corresponding points) and distance between them is not more than some predefined threshold.

Target point clouds (depicted in red) were gathered using a profile sensor mounted on flange of an industrial manipulator. Source point clouds (depicted in blue) were obtained using a virtual profile sensor, based on the ray casting method. This sensor was moving by the same trajectory as the real sensor and was scanning CAD models of real parts, roughly placed in a virtual scene. Task was required to localize various metal structures, like construction beams, brackets, etc.

Due to specific of the task computation time was not strictly limited, but high robustness and accuracy were required. Different point cloud registration methods from various libraries, such as PCL, Super4PCS and Halcon, were tested. As a result of the tests no one of the methods wasn't be able to give required accuracy and robustness on all provided datasets and for an arbitrary initial position of the source point cloud.

However, results of the methods on different datasets often did not correlate with each other. That is, on most datasets at least one of the methods was giving an acceptable result. Therefore, I decided to use all these methods together, executing them one by one and evaluating the registration quality (score). In addition, parameters of each method were tuned to give acceptable result on maximum number of datasets.

In the pictures below you can see results of the algorithm. The blue dots are representing the source point clouds and the red dots are representing the target point clouds. Also in the video (1:17) you can see the practical application of this algorithm.
