The purpose of my thesis was to develop algorithms for an adaptive cruise-control system for heavy trucks using a road profile map to optimize fuel efficiency.

A regular cruise-control system uses negative feedback on a speed and a PID-controller, which produces signals to control accelerator and breaks. It tries to maintain a reference speed set by a human driver, regardless the road conditions. The vehicle slows down on uphills and then its speed increases again to the reference value. This speed keeps until the next descent, and then rises because of gravity, leading the need of using retarder. This leads to increased fuel consumption, because the vehicle is moving at the reference speed at the beginning of downhill and then using the retarder.

Control algorithm, proposed in this work, is somewhat like add-on for the standard cruise-control system. Adaptive cruise-control includes dynamic model of the vehicle, road map and a system to compute reference speed. It uses information about the road slope in front of the vehicle and restrictions to the reference speed value, given by the human driver, to produce current reference speed. Basic rules of the system are simple: the vehicle must decelerate before the downhills and accelerate before the uphills. The first rule allow to decrease fuel usage, the second rule allows to decrease traveling time because of increased average speed.

To implement dynamic model of the vehicle an equation for rectilinear motion of a material point was used, along with equation of volume fuel consumption. The road map was defined as a slope angle function of a path length. For convenience the map was approximated by a piecewise linear function. This allow to consider the read as a sequence of linear segments.

The speed control system changes the reference speed based on slope of the linear road segment ahead the vehicle and length of this segment. Because of ambiguity of rules defining the reference speed a fuzzy logic expert system was used. This system was developed in the Fuzzy Logic Toolbox of the MATLAB software. A simple console C++ application then was reading files, created by the Fuzzy Logic Toolbox, and using the fuzzy inference system.

Resulting C++ application has a simple console interface. Screenshots below show how it works. User enters path to file with the road map and range (start point and end point) to perform computations. The program displays traveling time and fuel consumptions (liters per 100km) for regular and adaptive cruise-control systems. The last one gives a notable fuel saving as you can see. Graphs show changing of the speed and fuel consumption over the whole way from start to end point.

Source file available in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/artemiysmekhov84/AdaptiveCruiseControl).
