When programming an industrial manipulators a so called point-to-point (PtP) movement commands are using often. This type of movement is the fastest and the most energy efficient, because each axis of the robot is directly translated from the current position to the target position. However, due to non-linear mapping of generalized coordinates of the robot to cartesian coordinates, its flange can move by a complex curved trajectory. There is a danger of collision with surrounding obstacles while moving. The purpose of this work was to create an algorithm for planning safe movement paths.

The path planning algorithm must simulate the PtP movement of the robot from the current position to the target one with some step. If collision occurs, it must modify the path somehow to bypass an obstacle. There are infinitely many ways to make such path.

I have developed and implemented a simple algorithm that uses a randomly generated graph. Each vertex of the graph is a point in N-dimensional space, where N is the number of degrees of freedom of the manipulator. For this graph it is necessary to simulate the PtP movement between each pair of vertices and make the vertex adjacency matrix. If a collision occurs when moving from vertex i to vertex j, then the weight of the edge ij is taken equal to infinity. Otherwise, the weight of the edge is the Euclidean distance between these two vertices. Once the adjacency matrix has been fully defined, any classical method (such as Dijkstra's algorithm) can be used to find the shortest path on this graph.

It is clear that the shortest path on such a random graph will not be the shortest possible path for the robot to move. However, the algorithm is quite simple to implement, has good performance and must guarantee the absence of collisions when moving the manipulator.

The algorithm prototype was implemented and debugged in the MATLAB, and then was rewritten in the C++ language. The animation and pictures below show a demonstration of its work. For simplicity, all physical objects were drawn as cuboids. The yellow cuboid is the robot's flange. All other parts of the robot are not taken into account for simplicity. Red cuboids are representing obstacles. Number markers are a sequence of points to the move the flange between. Thus, the yellow cuboid must move from point 1 to 2, from point 2 to point 3, etc. without touching the red cuboids. In the figures, all steps of the movement are shown. It is clearly seen that the movement path does not intersect with any of the obstacles.
