Hexapod is a 6-axis robot with parallel kinematics. It works very similar to the Stewart platform, which is shown in the figure below. Unlike the Stewart platform, an upper base of the Hexapod is fixed, and a movable platform is attached under it on six rods. Each of the six rods can change its length independently, which allows to give the platform any position and orientation. The purpose of this work was to implement an algorithms to solve forward and inverse kinematics problems, required to control the robot.

Forward kinematics allows to compute position and orientation of the platform by known generalized coordinates. In case of the Hexapod generalized coordinates are lengths of its rods. Inverse kinematics, on the contrary, allows to calculate lengths of the rods based on the given position and orientation of the platform.

In this project, I developed a library with kinematics calculation methods, as well as an application that clearly demonstrates their work. Kinematics library was written in the C++ language as a DLL module. The application was made in the C# language and uses the .NET framework for UI and OpenTK library for 3D visualization.

The pictures below show a demonstration of how the application works. It allows to set different positions of the platform using the sliders. By pressing the "Save" button the rod lengths will be calculated and recorded. In this case inverse kinematics is used. Next, when the "Play" button clicked, all recorded sets of the rod lengths will be interpolated and the platform will be moving smoothly between all the saved points. In this case forward kinematics is used.
